helm/fluent-bit-syslog-to-aws-cloudtrail-data/README.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Dominik Wombacher <dominik@wombacher.cc>

SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
-->

# Helm Chart: Fluent Bit Syslog to AWS CloudTrail Data

Run a Fluent Bit deployment with a pre-configured Syslog input and
AWS CloudTrail Data output. Leverages the `fluent-bit-aws-cloudtrail-data`
Container Image
([Dockerfile](https://git.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data/tree/main/item/container/Dockerfile)
, [Repository](https://quay.io/repository/wombelix/fluent-bit-syslog-to-aws-cloudtrail-data)).

[![REUSE status](https://api.reuse.software/badge/git.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data)](https://api.reuse.software/info/git.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data)
[![builds.sr.ht status](https://builds.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data.svg)](https://builds.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data?)

## Table of Contents

* [Release](#release)
* [Run](#run)
* [Source](#source)
* [Contribute](#contribute)
* [License](#license)

## Release

The Helm Chart is automatically
[build and pushed](https://git.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data/tree/main/item/.build.yml)
to
[Quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/wombelix/fluent-bit-syslog-to-aws-cloudtrail-data)
on every new commit to the git repository.
Chart versions in format `X.Y.Z`, e.g. `0.2.0`, link to the
git tag and release. Development / Pre-Release versions are
based on `main` branch commits and have the format
`X.Y.Z-main+<GIT_SHA>`, e.g. `0.2.0-main+e829413`.
This means, based on last release version plus
main branch changes up to the commit hash.

## Run

The plugin, container and helm chart was initially developed to push
[NeuVector](https://github.com/neuvector/neuvector)
logs and events to AWS CloudTrail Lake. The chart is generic and
can be used with any software or system that supports Syslog.

Use `helm install` to deploy the chart, ensure to set the version
and the path to a customized `values.yaml`.

For usage with NeuVector, it's recommend to deploy in the same namespace.
Adjust the `namespace` parameter accordingly, for a standalone Helm deployment
`neuvector` and for a Rancher deployment `cattle-neuvector-system`.

Example:

```
helm install syslog-to-aws-cloudtrail-data \
    --namespace neuvector
    --version 0.2.0 \
    oci://quay.io/repository/wombelix/fluent-bit-syslog-to-aws-cloudtrail-data \
    --values values.yaml
```

Please refer to
[values.yaml](https://git.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data/tree/main/item/helm/fluent-bit-syslog-to-aws-cloudtrail-data/values.yaml)
for a complete overview of all available configuration options.

It's required to set `channelArn` and to ensure that the AWS Region was
either correctly auto-discovered or to set `awsRegion` manually.

More
[information and additional requirements](https://git.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data#run)
of the `aws-cloudtrail-data` plugin.

Optional, but helpful for troubleshooting purposes, is to set
`debug` and/or `enableStandardOutput` to `true`.

## Source

The primary location is:
[git.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data](https://git.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data)
in sub-folder `helm/fluent-bit-syslog-to-aws-cloudtrail-data`.

Mirrors are available on
[Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data),
[Gitlab](https://gitlab.com/wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data)
and
[Github](https://github.com/wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data).

## Contribute

Please don't hesitate to provide Feedback,
open an Issue or create a Pull / Merge Request.

Just pick the workflow or platform you prefer and are most comfortable with.

Feedback, bug reports or patches to my sr.ht list
[~wombelix/inbox@lists.sr.ht](https://lists.sr.ht/~wombelix/inbox) or via
[Email and Instant Messaging](https://dominik.wombacher.cc/pages/contact.html)
are also always welcome.

## License

Unless otherwise stated: `Apache-2.0`

All files contain license information either as
`header comment` or `corresponding .license` file.

[REUSE](https://reuse.software) from the [FSFE](https://fsfe.org/)
implemented to verify license and copyright compliance.

Commit message:

docs(Helm): Dev/Pre-Release example and hint of OCI behavior added
OCI doesn't support '+' in tags. SemVer requires it to separate builds from release information. '0.2.0-main+e829413' is valid SemVer required by Helm but will be stored as '0.2.0-main_e829413' in the OCI registry. Helm handles the conversion between the plus (+) and underscore (_) character.

helm/fluent-bit-syslog-to-aws-cloudtrail-data/README.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Dominik Wombacher <dominik@wombacher.cc>

SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
-->

# Helm Chart: Fluent Bit Syslog to AWS CloudTrail Data

Run a Fluent Bit deployment with a pre-configured Syslog input and
AWS CloudTrail Data output. Leverages the `fluent-bit-aws-cloudtrail-data`
Container Image
([Dockerfile](https://git.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data/tree/main/item/container/Dockerfile)
, [Repository](https://quay.io/repository/wombelix/fluent-bit-syslog-to-aws-cloudtrail-data)).

[![REUSE status](https://api.reuse.software/badge/git.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data)](https://api.reuse.software/info/git.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data)
[![builds.sr.ht status](https://builds.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data.svg)](https://builds.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data?)

## Table of Contents

* [Release](#release)
* [Run](#run)
* [Source](#source)
* [Contribute](#contribute)
* [License](#license)

## Release

The Helm Chart is automatically
[build and pushed](https://git.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data/tree/main/item/.build.yml)
to
[Quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/wombelix/fluent-bit-syslog-to-aws-cloudtrail-data)
on every new commit to the git repository.
Chart versions in format `X.Y.Z`, e.g. `0.2.0`, link to the
git tag and release. Development / Pre-Release versions are
based on `main` branch commits and have the format
`X.Y.Z-main+<GIT_SHA>`, e.g. `0.2.0-main+e829413`.
This means, based on last release version plus
main branch changes up to the commit hash.

*Important*: Version tags like `0.2.0-main+e829413` will show up in the
OCI registry as `0.2.0-main_e829413`. This is an expected behavior:

> OCI artifact references (e.g. tags) do not support the plus sign (+).
> To support storing semantic versions, Helm adopts the convention of
> changing plus (+) to an underscore (_) in chart version tags when
> pushing to a registry and back to a plus (+) when pulling from a registry.

## Run

The plugin, container and helm chart was initially developed to push
[NeuVector](https://github.com/neuvector/neuvector)
logs and events to AWS CloudTrail Lake. The chart is generic and
can be used with any software or system that supports Syslog.

Use `helm install` to deploy the chart, ensure to set the version
and the path to a customized `values.yaml`.

For usage with NeuVector, it's recommend to deploy in the same namespace.
Adjust the `namespace` parameter accordingly, for a standalone Helm deployment
`neuvector` and for a Rancher deployment `cattle-neuvector-system`.

Example (Release)

```
helm install syslog-to-aws-cloudtrail-data \
    --namespace neuvector
    --version 0.2.0 \
    oci://quay.io/repository/wombelix/fluent-bit-syslog-to-aws-cloudtrail-data \
    --values values.yaml
```

Example (Dev / Pre-Release)

```
helm install syslog-to-aws-cloudtrail-data \
    --namespace neuvector
    --version 0.2.0-main+e829413 \
    oci://quay.io/repository/wombelix/fluent-bit-syslog-to-aws-cloudtrail-data \
    --values values.yaml
```

Please refer to
[values.yaml](https://git.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data/tree/main/item/helm/fluent-bit-syslog-to-aws-cloudtrail-data/values.yaml)
for a complete overview of all available configuration options.

It's required to set `channelArn` and to ensure that the AWS Region was
either correctly auto-discovered or to set `awsRegion` manually.

More
[information and additional requirements](https://git.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data#run)
of the `aws-cloudtrail-data` plugin.

Optional, but helpful for troubleshooting purposes, is to set
`debug` and/or `enableStandardOutput` to `true`.

## Source

The primary location is:
[git.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data](https://git.sr.ht/~wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data)
in sub-folder `helm/fluent-bit-syslog-to-aws-cloudtrail-data`.

Mirrors are available on
[Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data),
[Gitlab](https://gitlab.com/wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data)
and
[Github](https://github.com/wombelix/fluent-bit-output-plugin-aws-cloudtrail-data).

## Contribute

Please don't hesitate to provide Feedback,
open an Issue or create a Pull / Merge Request.

Just pick the workflow or platform you prefer and are most comfortable with.

Feedback, bug reports or patches to my sr.ht list
[~wombelix/inbox@lists.sr.ht](https://lists.sr.ht/~wombelix/inbox) or via
[Email and Instant Messaging](https://dominik.wombacher.cc/pages/contact.html)
are also always welcome.

## License

Unless otherwise stated: `Apache-2.0`

All files contain license information either as
`header comment` or `corresponding .license` file.

[REUSE](https://reuse.software) from the [FSFE](https://fsfe.org/)
implemented to verify license and copyright compliance.
